(upbeat music)
All right, let's talk about modules.
Being able to share code across multiple JavaScript files
and even sharing code across multiple projects
is an easy thing to do when you start
using modules in JavaScript.
So, what are they?
Well, modules are a way to structure and organize
your JavaScript and it makes us have the ability
to share functionality and data across multiple files
and like I said before, multiple projects.
So, what are some things that you might
wanna use modules for?
Now, before we even get started, let's talk about
a couple of things you need to know about modules.
First, modules have their own scope.
So much like a function has its own scope,
a module which is going to be its own file
has its own scope.
Meaning that we don't really have to worry about
global variables any longer with that type of thing.
Modules can hold anything.
So they can hold functionality,
they can hold data, they can hold config,
we just go look at the currency conversion one that we have
like look at this sucker!
Wouldn't it be nice to put that somewhere else
and just import it into this file when we need it?
That's what modules are going to allow us to do.
Same thing with utility functions,
we take a look at the dad jokes one
that we just had finished where we have this
random item from an array, that's just a handy
array utility and it has nothing to do with dad jokes at all
so we could throw that off into a separate file
that is used for utilities.
So let's start off real basic,
we're gonna look at how modules work in the browser.
And then we're going to look into some tooling
that will help us work with them.
So modules, you might often hear them
called ESM, ECMAScript modules,
you might hear them called ES6 modules,
that's sort of the verbiage that people use around them,
they are baked into JavaScript a couple of years ago
and they are slowly gaining, or not even slowly,
they are the way to organize your JavaScript
when you have multiple files.
So let's go into our playground and let's make
a new folder in your playground called modules,
it might already be there for you.
And then inside of that, you need the index.html
and let's make a utils.js
and let's make a handlers.js
and let's make a scripts.js.
So we've got three different files in here.
And I wanna share code between all of them.
So let's say I've got some code in scripts js
and I would, it's like const name is equal to wes.
And then I am in utils.js and I have a function
that, let's do something super silly
and just say returnHi.
We can simply just return hi.
Maybe we should take their name
and we'll return hi plus their name.
So if I'm in the scripts.js and I wanna use
this returnHi function, can I just go ahead and use it?
returnHi pass it our name.
And let's go into our index.html.
This might already be there for you,
so feel free to skip that.
And let's get our script source,
let's link it up to our scripts js.
And I'll open that up in the browser.
And I'm gonna open up my dev tools here
and we're getting an error.
ReturnHi is not defined.
Okay, it makes sense because we have not yet
put our utils on the page.
So you might think okay, let's grab utils
and put that on the page first.
Okay.
And, we'd have to console.log.
Here, it works!
It works, right?
So, all you have to do is just make sure that you put
your script in front of the one that you need in.
This is actually the way that we used to do it.
It used to be the way that you would load,
jQuery was a big one, and then you'd load
all of your jQuery libraries, and then you'd load
all your utilfunctions and then you load your scripts
and maybe you have like a couple different scripts,
scripts1, two, three and four.
And that got out of hand really quickly
because if the jquerylib needed jquery,
then you need to load jquery first
and then if the utilfunctions needed the jQuery library,
then that need to be after that.
And then code it in three, maybe it relied
on a function that was in one, so that needed to be in order
and there's many many horror stories of people having
I don't know, 30 or 40 script tags
and all of them have to load in what's called the Waterfall.
They all have to load one after another
because they're all assuming that the previous one
has access to it, like if we go and look at scripts.js,
my ES learner saying it's not defined.
Like, where did this function come from?
returnHi.
I don't see it defined in here,
I don't see it imported in here.
And the only reason that it works is because
we have globally scoped this function in another file
and we're just assuming that it will be
available to us on this page.
And that's a very brutal way
to have to code your JavaScript.
So the solution to that is to use this thing
called modules where when you need a function
like returnHi, we can simply just import it
from the function from the module from the file
that actually has that function in it.
And then you don't really have to worry about things
loading before another thing because we're simply
going to import that value beforehand.
So, let's change this example to a really simple module
and the way that it works is that in your index.html,
instead of loading all of it,
you generally have just one script tag.
And that one script tag is going to be your entry point
into your JavaScript.
And then what we do is we add a new attribute
on to our script tag called type and we set it to module.
Now, if we were to
just console log, it's working.
Let's just make sure that this is working so far.
All right, origin (mumbles) null's been blocked
by a CORS policy, they're only supported protocol schemed
http, data, chrome extension, https.
Okay, so this is the CORS issue again.
So than there is our first sort of trouble
that we've run into, is that you can't use modules
unless you're running it on a server.
Now, we can't actually use our Parcel server here
because Parcel also handles modules for us.
And I'm trying to show you how modules work
without using any type of bundler
or anything that are smart about modules.
So, we actually just need a very simple
server up and running.
If you know how to run a quick server
that serves us index.html and the rest of these scripts,
feel free to skip ahead a couple of videos
and just start up with server that will serve this up.
For everybody else, I'm gonna show you
a couple of different ways do it.
There is a VS code plug in, so if we go
to our extensions here, and we search for live server.
Open it up.
You see there's a quick little server we can install.
Gonna go back to my modules, right-click on that
index.html and say open with live server.
And that will just start up a quick
little local host server.
This is one 127.0.0.1.
That's the same thing as local host.
That's just the IP address for your local host
and you could use both of those.
Whereas if I change this to local host,
it works exactly the same.
So don't sweat that.
Now, I'll open up my dev tools it says it's working.
There's another way to do a quick little server as well.
And that is with browser sync, that's the one
I use in my JavaScript 30 course,
and the way that you can do that is you can npm install -g
and it's browser-sync.
Then we need to go into our modules folder
that we have here.
So you can open in terminal or go to it via desk.
I'm just going to the playground.
And that's a little extension I have,
you can check out my command line parities course
if you wanna learn how to use that.
And then into modules.
And then we just type browser-sync and that is it.
And if we open up our dev tools here,
you see it is working but it's giving us
some grief about this base.css.
And that is because I am running the server
in my modules folder but the base CSS file
is actually in a higher level and it can't go up a level.
It can't go higher than the root.
So a quick little solution to that is we open up
our base CSS, copy everything, make a new file here,
base.css, paste it in, then I'll go back here
and change this path to be a relative one
to where we're working.
There we go.
So, two different ways you can make a module.
It looks like both of them have a live reload on them.
So if I were to put a paragraph and say hey and save it,
both of them reload, oh, looks like that one
doesn't reload itself.
But I just think it's supposed to reload.
Maybe you have to pass it some additional parameters.
I would probably stick to VS code one,
just 'cause that is simplest, and I'll keep going with that.
All right, you can jump back in here
if you know how to run a server.
So let's go back to our scripts js and we know
that it's working.
Now, the question is, how do I take a function that exists
in another file and get access to it when it is over here?
Well, the way that you can do that
is you can import it from that file.
So what we can do, there's two types of import,
there is named imports and default imports.
And before we can even import something,
we have to export it from this file.
So this idea of sharing code between multiple files,
the word that we use for each file is called a module.
So a file is a module.
And then if you want to surface functionality
from one file to another file, you then first,
must export it from here and the easiest way
to do that is you can simply just type export
in front of your function.
I'll show you a couple more ways
we can export things in just a second.
And then you go into your scripts js,
and we will import, curly brackets,
the name of the function that has been exported,
returnHi, from and then you give it a relative path.
So dot forward slash means the current directory,
and we're not going up a level.
If you want to go up a level, you do dot dot.
But in our case, we're in the scripts folder already
so we can simply just grab utils.js.
And now, I should be able to console log returnHi
and pass it my name.
And see, it says hi wes.
So what I've done there is I've defined some functionality
in a separate file and in order for me to access that thing,
I must first export it from the file it's in
and exporting essentially says,
this thing can be used by other JavaScript modules.
And then in our scripts js, we simply import it
from the file that it is in.
You always do your imports at the very top
of the file that you are in.
And you can have multiple imports as well.
Then you simply have access to that functionality
in order to go ahead and use it.
So, you could see, no problem,
we could start breaking things up into multiple files
and simply just importing and exporting them.
Now, a couple more things we need to know about modules.
Modules have their own scope.
I said that earlier in the video.
What does that mean?
Well, if I here, have last name variable
and that's equal to boss.
And if I want to access that in my scripts right here,
console log last, it says last is not defined,
because that's in a different module.
But now, the question is, if I use that variable in here,
first of all, is that allowed?
And second of all, is that going to work?
Well, let's go back here.
Get rid of that.
It says hi wes bos.
Okay, so, that means that you can use variables
that are defined inside of a module
and they will not leak out, they will not be available
in any other file, however, you can use them
inside of that module no problem.
So that is what is referred to as a scope to the module.
Meaning that, this is not available in my console,
I can't type in last, right here.
It's not globally scoped, it's not available
in my scripts module, it's not like scoped
from one to another, it's simply scoped to this file
and it can only be used inside of this file.
Now, is that okay?
Is that a good practice?
Absolutely.
That's the beauty of modules is that you don't have
to worry about scoping or anything like that,
you can just create variables inside of that file
and they're only available
inside of that file, nowhere else.
Now, what I did want to be able to
access this last name in this file?
So, one thing we can do is we can just put in an export
in front of the variable declaration,
and then we go in here and we can import another variable,
so last, and then that should be available to us, last.
You see it's available as bos.
Another way to export a value is instead of
exporting it when you create it, at the very bottom
of the file, you can export curly brackets, last.
And these little exports, these are called named exports
because they have a name on them.
Now, if I had multiple variables here, const middle
is equal to slam dunk.
And I wanted to export that as well,
I could either pop an export on the front or,
or I can export middle like this.
What should you do?
That's just a personal preference of what you prefer.
I sort of use a mix between one and another.
You often will have things that look like this.
Export async function, returnHi, no problem
to do something like that.
And I can go into my scripts here, import.
Because I'm already using that one.
I will say middle, I'll go down here and try to use that,
see if it worked, there we go.
Importing and exporting the files
from one module to another.
Now, that is what is referred to as named exports
and named imports.
The way that you can tell if something is a named import
or a named export is it will simply have the export value
in front of the function definition
or in front of the variable declaration,
or when they're exported, there will be curly brackets.
So curly brackets means it is a named export.
The opposite of that or the other way to do it
is called a default export.
So every module can have as many named exports as they want.
We can have as many as we want.
However, also, a module can have one default export.
Meaning, that is the default thing
that thing exports from it.
So if we make another module,
let's just call it wes.js.
And I would say const wes is equal to curly brackets.
And let's call it person.
So I'll show you that you can name it whatever you want.
And we say name is equal to wes, last is equal to bos,
and we just do this.
Export default person.
Then if I wanna access this person object,
I go into my scripts right here.
And I would simply import wes from wes.js.
Then we console log wes, does that work?
It does.
Now, I could call that anything I wanted.
Westerhoff.
It still works.
Let's call it ellen.
So, how come here, I can name it anything I possibly want.
But here, with named exports, I must know
what the name of the thing that was exported from it?
And that there is the difference between
named exports and default exports.
Named exports, you must know what they've been exported as,
but default exports, since there is only one per file,
you can import them as anything,
you can name it whatever you want.
So whatever was exported as a default from wes js,
just throw it into a westerhoff variable.
So, which one should you use?
There's certainly arguments on both sides.
Generally, the way that I go is if that module
does one thing, and it's sort of the base thing
that that module does, I'll put that
as the default export from it.
But if your module does multiple things,
maybe it's like a utility library, something like that,
then I'll have just multiple named exports from it.
So if I go into my react world, I generally have
one component per file.
So I will default export, that component from that file.
You can do both in a file.
So, I could also export default, a variable called first.
And if I were to make that,
then I could go back into my scripts js
and if I wanted to import that,
it doesn't go in curly brackets, curly brackets
are for named, this one is just for default.
So we say first and I can just go ahead
and console log the first variable.
And you see it works just fine there.
So named are in curly brackets.
Default only one and always outside of the curly brackets.
Another thing about modules is you can rename them
as you import them.
So, this returnHi function, if I wanted to rename it
to something else, I can take returnHi
and we say as sayHi.
And what that will do is it will rename it,
it will import returnHi and rename it,
kind of like destructuring.
The syntax is different though, we use the as keyword
into sayHi, let's try and console log that as well.
And you see I've got this function there as a returnHi.
Now, if I wanna go ahead and use it,
I have to rename the function.
Let's take a quick look at the docks.
So just mdn import.
And we'll go in here.
And you see that this is all the syntaxes.
Import at something as default from the module name.
Sometimes, you'll see people see leaving the .js off,
let's see if that works.
You see, utils not found.
So, in a lot of bundlers, Parcel included,
you can leave the and off.
But that is not part of the specs.
So you have to put the .js on there if you are using,
this is just pure HTML browser-based loading.
What else?
You can import everything that comes in as name.
So, let me do another one.
Let's go into wes js.
And let's export
const dog is equals Snickers
and export const food is equal to pizza
and export function eat.
And we'll console log chomp chomp, comp comp, chomp!
Now, all three of these, dog, food and eat
are named exports and if I wanted them to import them
to any file, by the way, you can import
into any module from any module.
Doesn't always have to be your entry point
which is scripts js here.
So you could import star as everything from,
and we'll get that from wes.js.
Let us see if this works.
If you import from twice, I don't think that will work.
All right, it does work.
But it's yellin' at me because like,
you're doing a named import.
You're doing a default import and a default export
so that's not what you want.
So I'm just gonna comment our westerhoff here real quick.
And now, we've got this variable called everything.
And if we console log everything,
inside of this we get, it's kinda like an object.
It's called a module here.
And you can see inside of it, we have a default,
which is wes bos.
Remember the default export?
And then you also have dog, eat and food.
So that's a function, these two are strings
and the default is in object.
So, kinda cool, if you ever wanna import
absolutely everything from a module.
You can use this star and that will give you
this object-looking thing, which has both your default
in the default name space as well as
all of your named exports as well.
Let's take a look here.
You can import as alias.
This is, I go back to this all the time.
I say 99% of the time, I just simply use
this syntax right here and being able to rename it,
that will cover you almost all of the time.
But there are some situations where you will need
to look up the syntax of this.
Quite honestly, I'd forget it from time to time as well.
They have a page for this as well with the export.
And you can see how to export different types of expressions
and objects and things like that.
We'll do a whole bunch of examples ourselves.
The last thing I wanna do is called an on-demand import.
You see this last one right here.
Our promise is equal to import module name.
So this is handy for when you want to import things
only when you need them, because let's say we've got,
let's go back to one of our examples right here.
Let's go into our exercises here
and go into the currency and take that huge object
right here of currencies.
And I'll go back to our folder which we're playing around in
in modules and let's just call it currencies.js.
I'm gonna paste it in there.
And I wanna export this thing as a default.
So just put an export default in front of it.
Actually, no, that's one situation where you can't do it.
You can export a variable declaration
but if you want to export default a variable declaration,
it doesn't work.
So, if this is a case, where I want the default thing
exported from currencies js, I must go to the bottom
of the file and exported default currencies.
And let's say I wanna click a button
and then display all the currencies.
One problem we might have with currencies
is that this is too big of a file to load
on like a homepage or when your scripts load.
Because it might not be necessary to actually load this.
So, what's a popular thing is people will on-demand
load JavaScript, maybe like shopping card JavaScript
will only be loaded when somebody hovers over
top of a buy now button.
Or a list of countries might only be loaded
when somebody opens the checkout
because that data is not needed until it's actually needed.
And doing that on-demand will make sure
that your website loads nice and fast.
So, if we wanna put a button on our page that clicks it
and loads the currencies to log it,
it'll work like this.
We're going to our index.html,
let's just give ourselves a button.
And say load currencies.
And let's go into our scripts.
And I'm gonna get rid of all of these console logs
just so we can keep it nice and clean.
I'm gonna get rid of this import as well.
And I'm going to first, select the button.
So const button is equal to document.querySelector
and we wanna grab our button.
Then we say button.addEventListener
and we'll listen for a click and when that happens,
now, this is a great used case for putting the code
in another file.
So normally, we will just go up here
and make a little function called handleButtonClick.
But what we can do is we can go into our handlers.js
and make a function called handleButtonClick,
that takes in the event.
And let's just console log the event.
Now, if we wanna make that accessible to our scripts js,
we export that, and we'll go back
into our scripts js and import it.
Import handleButtonClick from handlers.js.
And then we simply just pass it to our event listener.
So this is usually what I'll do.
I'll have scripts.js file that will select my elements
and hook up my event listeners.
And then almost all of my other utilities, data,
functionality, handlers, all of those go in separate files
and then I can import them in as I need it.
And that keeps my scripts.js or that keeps my entry point
nice and lean, and I'm able to quickly scan it and see
what does it do?
I can click to see, what does it do?
It selects a button, listens for a click
and then handles it.
And then, if I wanna know how does it do it,
then I wanna go a little bit further
into one of these modules and read that.
So, if we've got this up and running, let's go in here.
Click on it and when you click on it,
we are console logging the event.
Great, now, I can just nicely go to this nice, clean file
and work on my function here.
And I'll say handleButtonClick.
So, we're gonna console log, we wanna get
all of the currencies, so we could do this.
Import currencies from currencies.
Oh, we gotta put` a .js on the end.
And then here, console log currencies.
And if we go to our network tab and refresh this page here,
you'll see all of the script modules
that are being loaded here.
We've got our utilities, our wes,
our handles and our currencies.
And if I comment that out, you see currencies isn't here.
So how do I on-demand load some data
or some functionality from module?
Well, and so they make this async.
And then we'll say const currencies is equal to
await import currencies.js.
We're gonna get rid of this and let's also
just console log the currencies.
And now, you see, currencies.js is not loading
but when I click it, whoa!
You see how that request was made?
Only after I clicked it.
And then we go into our console and we get our module here.
And you can access the things like we did before.
So, in our case, if you wanna access the actual currencies,
we need to get the default.
So maybe we should name that module our currenciesModule.
And then if we want the actual currencies,
we access the default property on that.
Boom, and there we go.
Obviously, that's very fast 'cause I'm local
but if that was up on a server,
it definitely would take a little bit more time.
It does cache it, meaning that if someone
already clicked that again, it would have
already been imported, so then
it would be instant at that point.
One other little trick that you can do
is if these currencies had a couple other exports on it,
so maybe like export const localCurrency is equal to CAD,
I wanted to import that as well on demand.
I go back to my handlers here and we could obviously
just console log the currencies module
and on that, you would see that we have our local currency
as well as the default object.
But you can destructure those into their own variables
with the curly brackets, so we say,
localCurrency and default.
And let's just console log, local currency and default.
Now, you see, it's given me grief here about this currency.
It's kinda cool, it shows you what the currencies are, nice.
And then it says, unexpected keyword default
'cause default is a reserved word in JavaScript
like function and async and export,
those are all reserved words.
You cannot use those as variable names.
So here, it's telling me something's broken.
So what we have to do there is rename it default
and we'll just call it currency.
Now, it's just a variable called currency.
And now we've got is we've got our local currency
and the currency object.
So if you are destructuring a property,
the properties called default is not allowed
to have a variable called default.
So, if that's the case, then you need to use
desctructuring renaming to rename it to something else
which is called currency in this case.
I think that's enough in this video.
In the next one, we'll jump into
some more real world examples and then also
get into using external bundled modules.